So in the last lecture we edit this login form which you can reach by clicking on login here on
the top right corner
and you can simply download the attached code to have that same starting project,
if you download it
just make sure that you use your database credentials here when connecting to the database because mine
won't work for you obviously because I shut down the server after I'm done recording.
So I added this login page and we'll not implement authentication right now,
we'll do this in a separate module but this is a great dummy scenario for using a cookie because let's
say when we click that submit button here, the login button, we will actually send a login request to
the backend because that is what we stored in the login form, here in auth login, we are sending a post
request to /login
and since we do that, we should handle this and we want to in a real scenario validate the e-mail and
password, in this module we'll not do that, we'll just assume that the input data is valid
because it's not the topic we'll focus on for now.
So let's add a new controller action first of all in the auth.js file and I'll name it post login.
Now in post login, I will get my login data, e-mail, password and so on and I don't really care about
that data, so I'll just assume the user is logged in and I will then redirect to just slash.
However and now that is important,
if we do it like this and we add a route for this of course to our auth route file,
so here this is post, a post request to /login and we use the post login controller action,
if I do this and then click on login here, I am indeed forwarded to the /route.
Ok
so this could mean we are authenticated.
Now let's say we want to store that information that the user is authenticated,
how could we store that?
Well you could say I go into my controller and in post login where I do log the user in, I store
that information in my request object, is logged in because we are already doing a similar thing in
app.js
right at the start, we fetch our one dummy user and store that in the request so that we can use it for
the rest of that request,
so in all the routes and controllers where we handle that request. We can do the same here and set this
to true, by default right at the start it will not be set,
so the value will be undefined which is treated as false and that is the information I need. Now to validate
whether that works,
let's actually go to our views and there in the navigation.ejs,
I commented out two routes for which we could say we need the user to be authenticated,
let's comment them in but only render them if the user is authenticated.
So how would we go about that?
Well we could use ejs for that of course and we can check if, let's say we expect to get some isAuthenticated
value here,
so if isAuthenticated then we'll do something, we'll render this part here and otherwise this will
not be rendered because we don't make it into that if block.
So if I do it like this and I reload this page, I get an error
that
isAuthenticated is not defined
because we're not always rendering this to our different views.
So what we actually need to do since the authentication is part of every page, for every render call here,
we need to pass the information whether the user is authenticated or not
and for that I'll access request is authenticated because that is exactly or is logged in, excuse me is
logged in because that is the field we're storing that information.
So I'll access request is logged in because that is what I will set to true when we do login,
so I'll add isAuthenticated and store that value to every render call here.
Here and here for get add product,
also on the error page here like this and also in shop.ejs of course for all our routes here like this
one, basically every time when we call render, in all these cases I will add my isAuthenticated information.
So now that I added it to all routes and I saved all files, if I reload I still fail because I obviously
also need to render, I need to add it to auth.js, to my render route there,
so now if I reload, this works and we are missing these two fields. If I login, we are still missing them
though
and why is that,
do you know why this does not work?
Even though I am storing the information that I am logged in, in is logged in
when we click that button, I'm storing it in my request and then I use that information in the request on every
other route I handle and I pass it into isAuthenticated which is the field which I'm using in my frontend,
in my navigation, there
I am checking for isAuthenticated and that is what I am passing to that frontend in my render calls
here.
Well the problem of course is yes I update is logged in here in the request and what happens to the
request once I send a response
and we do send a response by redirecting?
Well the request is dead, it's done. With a response,
we basically finished a request, we got a request and we sent a response,
we're done.
This data does not stick around,
this data is lost after the request or after we send the response.
So whenever we visit a different page, like here where we do get redirected, so we get redirected here
and we reach our get index action here in the end and there, we do render the shop index page
but this is a brand
new request, the redirection creates a brand new request and this is super important to understand. We're
working with totally separate requests and that is important because your application, your page will
have hundreds of users and obviously the requests of all these users are not related to each other
otherwise they could maybe look into data that they shouldn't see and even the requests of a single user,
so requests made from the same IP address are treated as totally independent requests.
They are not seen in a bigger context or anything like that
and this is a good thing,
this is deliberately designed that way and therefore any data we store here can be used as long as we are
working on the same request.
That is why when we retrieve the user in app.js here and I store it in the request, that is why
we still can use that request user in all our action controllers because they can again at a later point
of time,
this middleware runs on every incoming request before our routes handle it.
So the data we store here is used in the same request cycle, in our route handlers in our controllers
but if I do change the request at the end of its lifetime, like here, right before I send the response,
this data will not be useful to us,
it's really important to understand this.
So let's now see how we could solve this in a better way.